on the latest Masters in Business
podcast, My Conversation with Ed Perks.
He has been with Franklin Templeton
since 1992. He has all of these various
[music] titles. He's not only PM of
their flagship Franklin Income Fund, but
he's CEO of Franklin Income Investors,
president of their advisors group,
member of the executive committee. Uh,
not many people have been with the same
firm their entire career right out of
college. Ed Perks is one of them. Few
people more knowledgeable about fixed
income [music] and nonbond yield. I
thought this conversation was
fascinating and I think you will also.
With no further ado, my conversation
with Franklin Templeton's Ed Perks.
Ed Perks, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks, Barry. It's great to be with
you.
>> Well, that's really quite an impressive
um CV. Before we get into the various
assets you manage, let let's start with
your background. Economics and political
science BA from Yale. That doesn't sound
very much like uh fixed income manager.
What What was the original career plan?
>> Yeah, it certainly wasn't finance. Um,
and uh, you know, at Yale, I I really
kind of um, you know, certainly had a
had a broad cross-section of of studies.
Um, you know, like many of my
classmates, I think if it wasn't med
school, it was either law school or or
going into government. I think that's
kind of some of what I was thinking
during school. Really didn't uh didn't
transition to um trying to pursue a
career in finance until actually after I
graduated. And uh, at that time I moved
out west. I wanted to um you know
experience a different part of the
country and uh particularly in the early
1990s. U the San Francisco Bay area had
a pretty robust financial services
community and uh so I headed out after
graduation without a job and and was
able to land at Franklin.
>> Plus you're done at 1:00 in the
afternoon. That's that's the
>> you do start a bit earlier.
>> You start at 5:30. It's very very 5 in
the morning. I remember walking into an
office in San Francisco and at 8:45
there are pizza boxes around and it's
sort of oh that's right we're on New
York Wall Street time because the market
is live. Um so let's talk a little bit
about the 1990s. You joined Franklin
Templeton. Is this your first gig at a
school in 1992? You've been at Franklin
Templeton your entire career. Is that
right?
>> Yes, it is.
>> That is pretty rare these days. Tell us
about what attracted you to Franklin
Templeton in the beginning and what's
kept you there for gez coming up on 40
years. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Well, when I loaded the uh the car
up on Long Island, I drove a a small
Mississippi Mirage hatchback across
country. Um no satellite radio, right?
No air conditioning. Um no cell phones.
Um so it was a different time. But uh
got out uh to California, really had the
had the thought that I might experience
the West Coast for a year and a half or
two years and and make my way back to
New York and and get uh get the the real
job, so to speak,
>> right?
>> Um you know, and I was really fortunate
to land at at Franklin at a time of of
just tremendous growth, not just in the
industry, but for our firm overall. I
actually joined the original Franklin
funds um prior to the prior to the
Templeton merger.
>> Yeah. Wow. Um so uh that yeah that
certainly dates me and makes me I guess
a little OG.
>> Um so you know I think what was really
um interesting and I I landed at first
and took a role in in marketing
research. I knew very little about um
the industry structure and I wanted to
learn and it gave me a great um
cross-section um of of different
investment strategies. Um I had taken um
you know a class at Yale um investment
analysis taught by uh you know pretty
legendary uh endowment manager David
Swenson
>> of course
>> and uh I think at the time I uh maybe
hoped that it was a bit more of a um you
know a typical stocks for jocks kind of
class and and in fact it was not. Um but
that did plant a little bit of the seed
and and um you know but I knew I had
work to do to kind of prepare myself for
a role ultimately in in pursuing
research and uh and after about a year
and a half and taking one of the CFA
exams I was able to get that junior role
as a research analyst in the Franklin
Equity team. 1990s San Francisco, the
tech boom was just ramping up. Late
[snorts] 80s, early 90s. What What was
that experience like? That had to be the
roaring 90s. Had to be quite an
experience in San Francisco.
>> Yeah, I' I'd say it really kind of
kicked into gear more in the 967 time
period and then certainly right
exuberance.
>> Yes. And that was premature, but there
was still plenty of plenty of time to go
in it. But it was a very exciting time
uh to be out there not just in the tech
community but thinking about some of the
regional uh investment banks Montgomery
Securities and Hamburg and Quist and
Bobby Stevens you know so you had a lot
happening the the the economy as a whole
I'd say at that time was was uh uh far
more diversified than it is maybe today.
Obviously technology is such a dominant
player within uh Northern California.
>> Yeah. It's not that anything else got
smaller. It's just that tech ballooned
up so large and it dominates everything.
Although to be fair, I I I think finance
has it hasn't grown as fast as tech, but
it certainly expanded lock, you know,
fairly lock step with uh technology. Uh
what's fascinating about your time uh
your early days at Franklin Templeton,
you did credit, you did convertibles,
you did equities. H how important was
that sort of crossasset experience to
eventually becoming more of a
specialist?
>> Yeah, I think it was a key component of
it. I really was drawn to early days. I
was drawn to the different type of
analysis that you would perform based
upon the kind of company you were you
were following or industry you were
following. And we did have a a a broad
cross-section of of strategies managed
uh at Franklin. So as an analyst
following companies, you kind of always
had something to pitch a given portfolio
manager on and and that was something
that really attracted me. So whenever we
had some movement in the group or growth
um adding resources in a certain area
that was interesting, I kind of was
inclined to put my hand up and and that
led to a lot of the progression of of
the career ultimately moving out of the
analyst role in 1997 and and taking on
the duties of portfolio manager for that
dedicated Franklin conser uh convertible
securities fund. So over all these
different experiences and over time h
how does that lead to the evolution of
your philosophy
uh as an investor what what beliefs did
it strengthen and and what beliefs did
you learn to yeah this just isn't
generating any anything that's
worthwhile anymore? Well, I think the
first uh thing was really um kind of
understanding who you are as an investor
and and I I'm a pretty firm believer in
this that over time I I came to
understand that I like a certain type of
investing. Um, I like buying things that
um that trade at reasonable valuations
that um might not have a uh an immediate
catalyst but something that you can look
out over a longer period of time. Uh by
having that longerterm investment
horizon, um income naturally became
something you'd focus on. Um in terms of
just thinking about it from a standpoint
of getting paid to wait while your
investment kind of performs the way you
think it it it has the potential to. Uh
so that's something that that certainly
started to resonate at the early part of
my career. But I would say actually
getting involved in convertible
securities was a pretty significant
defining moment for me um in that you
can pursue investing in convertibles
which are hybrids which have fixed
income characteristics and have
>> um an equity tie as well and seek out um
investments that have the potential for
positive asymmetry. So securities where
with a given time horizon and a certain
move in the underlying common stock,
you'll do better on the upside than you
will get hurt on the downside. And it
was just something that really appealed
to me and I think is a core component of
what we've uh done historically and try
to do in our multiasset income
strategies. Let
>> let me throw something out to you. I
have noticed as both a trader and an
investor that the equity guys who
started in fixed income seem to have a
greater appreciation for risk management
and for thinking about asymmetrical
trades where your downside is X and your
upside is 3x or 10x or whatever. What is
it about fixed income analysts and
investors that makes them so
hyperfocused on risk management?
Yeah, fundamentally you're just doing a
different different type of analysis.
And I mean one of the things that we
found kind of most fascinating over the
years is um given we have an internal
team of equity analysts and an internal
team of credit analysts that opportunity
when you're meeting with company
management and you'll sit down with um
both analysts and companies typically
come to investors thinking they're on an
equity road show or a fixed income road
show, right? And uh when you sit down
and now you want to talk about it from
both perspectives, that's some of the
most interesting meetings we've had over
the years with companies. They in fact
do have kind of different stories for
those different investor uh groups. So I
think it gives you that that broader
perspective of of what the capital
allocation decision-making process looks
like at a given company. And ultimately
what we're doing is trying to figure out
um what money they will have i.e. what
our margins, how are how are profits
growing and what they'll do with that
capital.
>> So in your present roles, you have the
latitude to kind of go anywhere either
in the cap structure or the allocation
table or geographically. How does that
affect how you think about what what's
interesting, what's what's attractive?
Like it's almost overwhelming that sort
of freedom to pretty much consider
almost every asset class.
>> Yeah, I would say that's actually kind
of our ideal situation and we are in
that today. I think there was a lot of a
long period of time post financial
crisis 20089 where you know almost the
intent of the policy was to eliminate
large sectors and the fixed income
markets from being attractive to
investors. Right.
>> Exactly. So um you know I I really kind
of viewed today and and you know the
bond market being back was announced
pretty loudly in 2022. Um so you know
today the fact that we can look across
um you know the the swath of fixed
income markets and find you know
interesting areas you know it may be
more income um focused i.e. if we're not
expecting a significant downdraft in
interest rates the total return
potential from fixed income might be
more muted but they can play a really
interesting role uh in in generating
that kind of stable core total uh part
of total return that we expect income to
be. We're going to talk a lot about
fixed income coming up, but your CIO of
income investors. What's the biggest
macro variable that the CIO of Franklin
Templeton income investors looks at
every morning?
>> Yeah, I mean, we we really think there's
kind of two components to what we need
to do and and you know, one I would put
in is more kind of where we can be
proactive. It's the the the
extent to which we think there's risk on
the equity side of markets. uh credit
risk in markets or or macro or interest
rate risk. Those are the three kind of
big uh risk components that we actively
try to think about. I would say that
sets our kind of compass for how we want
to allocate the assets. And even though
over long market cycles, we may be
pretty equally split between fixed
income and equity assets
>> in our strategy. At times, even in the
last five years, that's been 7525
one way and then flipped the other way.
So there is a tremendous amount of
latitude and and then you know I think
on a day more daily kind of basis um
certainly something that we're
experiencing in in pretty good dose to
start the year is is those more reactive
components uh of risk and and you know
we do think right now policy matters a
lot and it's it might be fiscal policy,
monetary policy,
um regulatory policy but we're in we're
reminded almost on a daily basis now
that there's a lot of other factors,
foreign policy, geopolitical risk that
that certainly influence markets. It
doesn't mean we're going to make
wholesale changes to the portfolio, but
being able to engage and get our
investment team focused on on where
opportunities might be is a big part of
the day-to-day role.
>> So, so let me ask that question. Uh,
we're waiting for some major Supreme
Court decisions in a whole variety of
areas. Uh there's the ongoing battle
between the White House and the Federal
Reserve that that that's been heating up
lately. It's been sort of simmering for
really a year. It seems every morning
you wake up and there's some tweet or
something else that are roing the
markets. Wait, we're going to cap credit
cards 10%. Good luck getting a credit
card if that happen. How do you interact
with all this news flow? Is it something
you ignore? Is it noise that you have to
sift through or are you constantly
hunting for what's really meaningful
here that's not reflected in prices
already? What could potentially move
markets if this seems to catch a little
bit of fire?
>> Yeah, I I I think the the desire would
be to, you know, tune out that noise to
largely ignore it. But the reality in
markets, those examples that you've
given drove some pretty significant
movements, even if just for a short
period of time. you know, I would use
the the major uh banks, those that are
more focused on issuing credit cards as
an example yesterday and and and stock,
you know, price activity. Uh last week,
maybe some of the large defense
contractors, how they were impacted by
some of the announcements. Those are
some pretty significant swings that we
do have to pay attention to and do have
to think about whether or not there's
the opportunity. But I think if you can
step back, think about it a little bit
more rationally, uh clearly we want to
engage and get the insights from our
dedicated analysts on those specific
situations. That's where some
opportunities come in. And you know, I
think whether it be an isolated very um
specific maybe more short-term event.
That's, you know, one one instance. Uh
but if we go back a year, you know,
there was a two to three week period of
tremendous volatility around a policy
shift that really gave investors an
opportunity uh around that that tariff
day and and liberation day.
>> Yeah, it was a week of uh you know
turmoil and then on pause and off to the
races. We had you know the most recent
DOJ referral with the Federal Reserve. I
spoke to a buddy on a bond desk over the
weekend when this happened and
I I love the attitude of well look at
the two-year it doesn't care so why
should I care is is that a little too
glib how do you look at how the market
especially fixed income market reacts to
the news flow is that really the
ultimate determiner of what's noise and
what's signal
>> yeah I think it's a good I might broaden
it from the two-year to say let's look
at the curve Okay.
>> Um especially today where I think
there's probably more sensitivity around
where longerterm interest rates are are
sitting and potentially could go. You
know, to me, anything that that
increases the confidence, the um raises
the uncertainty level around um the
economy, I think are are challenges
that, you know, if we were to see the
long end respond unfavorably to would be
quite problematic for markets. H. So, so
let's talk a little bit about what's
going on in fixed income. Lot of
crossurrens. Here's what's happening
with the Fed. Here's what's happening
with the dollar overseas has become more
attractive.
Let let me just right out of the box.
Where are you seeing the most compelling
risk adjusted income opportunities
today? High yield investment grade
dividend equities. And I know you could
go anywhere. So, what what do you like
these days? Yeah, you know, I would say
in fixed income, we are really pretty
diversified across the uh the range and
for us that is is um US treasuries, it's
agency mortgage back securities, it's
investment grade corporate bonds and and
high yield corporate bonds and you know
we have different factors there. Um, you
know, one, we do think the carrier or
the income component of fixed income is
is quite attractive again today. And and
you know, like I said before, it's it's
been a while since, you know, that was
the case or there was a long period of
time where that was certainly not uh not
a function, not a a benefit that
investors and fixed income had. Um
spreads on the corporate side do you
know concern us a little bit but at the
same time you know we have seen extended
periods of time historically where
spreads spreads have stayed on the
tighter uh side near historical lows. So
um you know our view is that you want to
be diversified look a little bit more at
idiosyncratic risk. So sometimes in our
in our strategy, we do think the biggest
lever that we have moving from one asset
class to another um is is the most
appropriate. We certainly had that in in
2021 and 2023. U today we think that
lever is a little less important and
it's a little bit more about relative
value between sectors andor security
selection idiosyncratic risk. So I think
in the past year uh um moving out of
some of the significant overweight that
we had in investment grade corporate
debt for example in favor of agency
mortgages because spreads had really
widened out was something that worked
out well for us in 2025.
>> I noticed you didn't mention tips
treasury inflation protected securities.
Is that something that at the current
level of inflation and the current yield
there is that attractive?
>> Yeah it it it's not something that we're
focused on on today. You know, I think
to the extent that we see inflation
continue um you know to come down um and
settle in at a lower level that tips may
become something that we want in the
portfolio to the extent that then
inflation could have surprised to the
upside.
>> Mhm. And uh let's talk a little bit
about those corporates you mentioned.
Um, are we getting enough spread between
investment grade and high yield
corporates to make the juice worth the
squeeze or cuz for a long time there's
hardly any daylight between the yield in
both. H how do you look at that? Are are
corporates cheap or expensive uh high
investment grade relative to high yield?
Yeah, we do think uh moving um up into
the higher credit quality components of
high yield is probably one of the more
attractive areas. You know, we also like
to so if you're looking at tripleB
doubleb spreads, we want to be in in the
higher quality credits. Um to the extent
that we're owning a broader section of
high yield, which we do in our strategy,
it's emphasis more on the latter
security selection. what is an
individual company doing uh to be able
to refinance the debt to term out their
maturities or ultimately to improve the
overall credit quality. We do think
rating agencies lag by a significant
margin and if you can get ahead of that
and use your fundamental analysis that
that's a that's a an area within the
fixed income markets we want to be
focusing on. trying to remember who I'm
stealing this line from, but it's
definitely not mine, which is there's so
much variation in the Bminus space that
some of it is junk and some of it is IG
and maybe some of it's in between, but
the variance is is enormous. Fair
statement.
>> Yeah, I think that is. And and you know,
certainly there are investors that play
only in certain parts. And when you're
flirting with that lower credit quality
component, B minus into triple C, that
that that starts to change the dynamic
of of who the investor base potentially
is.
>> So, you've been doing this for a long
time. You've lived through the financial
crisis, uh, ZERP, zero interest rate
policy, quantitative easing, the most
recent inflation shock, and and
tightening cycle for someone who has
your um authority to go anywhere. What
of those types of environments are the
most challenging to manage uh an income
portfolio through? Yeah, I mean I I
think certainly the periods of extreme
volatility are going to be challenging
for any strategy. Um and and in my
career the ones that I'll um you know go
back to certainly when managing the
convertible fund around the dotcom crash
um and then in our income strategies
both uh financial crisis. So, you know,
yeah, markets bottomed in March09, but
September of08 was pretty difficult for
any investor.
>> You know, to me, I think what's really
defined um our strategies and maybe
become a little bit of a um you know,
the focal point of of our approach is is
to continually look forward. I mean I
think the um the number of investors um
even if we were to bring this more into
the current you know time and we spoke
less than a year ago and tariff
volatility was impacting markets. I
think a lot of investors have the
tendency to, you know, to sit on their
hands a bit when there's this kind of
volatility playing out in markets and
maybe even even a worse case would be
going to the sidelines which we know a
lot of investors did in September of08
or March of09 and um
>> or the first week of April of last year.
>> Exactly. And and that's where I think
because we have such a flexible mandate,
our attention turns more to how can we
optimize the positioning of the
portfolio. we always have assets that
are benefiting in some way have some
liquidity uh profile to them that lets
us focus on being playing offense a
little bit more during those periods of
time. And I think that's something that
has um has always enabled us to kind of
recharge the portfolio. Pretty firm
believer in the price you pay matters uh
concept whether it's an income
investment or or uh something that's
designed to create more capital
appreciation.
uh and and that's something that you
know really has um enabled us to kind of
ultimately come out of periods of
volatility and deliver for our investors
um you know even even though there might
have been some some bumps along the way.
So 2022 was the first year that saw
doubledigit losses in both stocks and
bonds since uh 40 years earlier, 1981,
which I recall was also a rate hiking
environment. Not quite as aggressive as
what we saw in 2022.
I've noticed people talking about
anticipating that again and pretend uh
preparing for it. Is that a little
overly cautious? How often do we see
stocks and bonds both down that
significantly in the same year? Is that
likely to happen anytime soon?
>> Well, I think the the the backdrop was
was really set for that dynamic. And
what I mean by that is where rates had
had had declined to. You didn't have the
carried offset negative returns and
fixed income. and uh the resetting of
where rates should have been um you know
provided that that uh the fuel to to
drive those kind of negative total
returns. So we really think we're in
that uh certainly not in that position
today never say you know can can we you
know don't expect that that can never
happen again but certainly not the
backdrop that we're envisioning today.
So just the rationale why are bonds can
bonds be a diversifier in a multi-asset
portfolio you know I think we would have
argued and if you look at our asset
allocation um in in 2021 we did not
believe so and they certainly did not
offer attractive income for investors so
>> and that was good for 20 prior 20 years
they were not producing a whole lot of
income after 2022
um yields were look money markets were
over 5% for a a while. Now we're in a
rate cutting cycle. How does that affect
how you look at um fixed income
products? Are you looking to extend
duration? Are you looking to extend uh
credit quality? Is there now
reinvestment risk if you're too short?
How are you thinking about this?
>> Yeah, we made such a significant move in
into fixed income in 2022 and and um and
and 2023 that you know, we do have that
now in the corporate space in
particular. We have companies that are
um are engaging the market refinancing.
So some of the real prized kind of
investments we were able to make at the
time, you know, we are now seeing some
cash coming back into the portfolio. But
way we treat that is that just because a
dollar comes out, maybe a high yield
bond is called away or matures,
>> which they do in fact do at times. Um it
doesn't mean that dollar goes back into
the high yield bond market for us. It's
it's always going to be that next most
attractive place that we're looking
today. we might be uh looking um you
know more specifically in structured
equity or in convertible securities
where um you know we think outside of
the uh the very large mega cap tech
companies that have driven this market
since 2023 that there's pretty
reasonable valuation. So there's a lot
of companies whether it's utilities or
industrials that um I think have a
pretty interesting profile for the rest
of the decade. So if we can pursue
investments in their common stock, maybe
there's a 2 to 3% dividend yield, but if
we can access a convertible, we can
blend that yield up to something that's
more attractive for a strategy and yet
still retain, you know, a pretty
interesting profile on the upside.
>> Uh my assumption is if something is
being called away, it's that it was too
generous and now they're refinancing um
at a more attractive rate. Let's talk a
little bit about the Franklin Income
Fund. Um, you're only the third lead
manager of this flagship fund. You
followed uh Charles Johnson, who is
fairly legendary in the fixed income
world. Um, and and tell us a little bit
about what it was like taking over as
lead manager of that fund.
>> Well, first, let me mention I I had a
chance to to sit down with Charlie last
month. uh something I try to do on as
regular basis as I as I can. And uh to
still see and and u and and meet with
him and and hear the stories of of some
of the history is something that I
really really cherish and and value
doing. Um you know, I I think from the
standpoint of of
the the path that that we've been on
with Franklin Income, you know, joining
in in 2002 was it was a large strategy
for Franklin at the time. it was um you
know around 8 billion in in assets under
management and I think what really kind
of maybe though defined uh the strategy
was that period coming out of the
financial crisis and um you know
navigating our way and and being able to
engage the broad cross-section of
markets and and perform very well for
fiveyear period really u helped
establish this but at the same time um
you know we realize that investors um
financial adviserss do like a range of
different strategies ies or the ability
to use different vehicles to deliver an
investment strategy. And that was
something where um in 2022 we launched
Franklin income in SMA vehicle and in
2023 we launched Franklin income
strategy in an ETF. So, it's been um and
and uh you know to see um that strategy
get adopted in in different vehicles um
is something that was a big part of
taking this uh strategy that's been so
important for Franklin Templeton as a
whole to a different type of investor.
>> And for listeners who may not be
familiar with the Franklin Income Fund,
a couple of things really struck me
about it. first. Not too long ago, it
celebrated its 75th anniversary. Ain't a
whole lot of funds that have been
running continuously for 75 years since
1950. And and then secondly,
and this amazes me, uninterrupted
monthly dividends dating back to the
launch, which was I think 1948. Is that
right?
>> That's unbelievable.
>> It is a great It's It's really a great
story. It was part of the original
custodian funds for Franklin and uh the
uh the first four were you know really
the four asset classes at the time a
bond fund a a stock fund a a preferred
fund and a utility fund and then the
final series of custodian funds was the
income fund which me was meant to look
at those other four strategies four
asset classes and find the most
attractive income investments. So
>> sure the four food groups that's the
core and uh you create a whole meal out
of that. Um, so you mentioned agency
mortgage backs. What what else do you
look at uh that are either assetbacked
or CLOS's or any exotic other uh
products that theoretically
generate pretty good yield relative to
the risk the investor assumes.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I I think that agency
mortgages tend to be our our core
component within that part of the fixed
income markets, but we're always
evaluating different opportunities,
assetbacked oriented investments, and um
you know, right now we're pretty light.
We do have a fair amount of corporate
debt that is secured debt. So, I recall
coming out of the financial crisis,
Double Line as an example, had a ton of
mortgage backs and it just seemed as
everybody refinanced and refinanced um
their homes, the available paper just
disappeared. I'm doing this off the top
of my head, but it was something like
90% mortgages when it started. They
ended up at like 25 or 35% mortgages.
We've seen a significant slowdown in
home sales. Uh yield has uh been higher
than it's been for the past 20 years. So
we haven't been seeing a lot of
refinancing and or a lot of new
issuance. Is there enough mortgage back
paper out there? What what's going on in
that space?
>> Yeah, and certainly it's been topical um
just uh the last week or so with um you
know
>> Fanny and Freddy purchases 200 billion a
month or some wild number.
>> Yeah. an additional 200 billion, but
even beyond that, there could be an
extension. So, you know, we did see the
mortgage market react. I mean, we saw
spreads kind of come down and, you know,
ultimately bringing longerterm rates
down is going to be probably the biggest
beneficiary in terms of activity within
the housing market. But, do we have to
get down to 5% mortgage rates to see
this really kick up or where are we now?
Six and change, six and a quarter.
>> Yeah, I mean, I I I think certainly that
needs to be the direction of travel.
what that that specific number needs to
be to get some activity. Probably
there's some other factors as as as
well. Certainly the the overall health
of the economy and the labor market are
going to be a major major component of
of being able to get some of that
activity going in in the housing market.
H
>> how closely do you track macroeconomic
news? like there. If I had to describe
the labor market today, I would say it
it's still solid, but not as strong as
it was a year ago or even six months
ago. Really, since April, we've seen it
kind of soften up. Uh we're not seeing
big layoffs. Do you I always feel like a
macro tourist when I I visit that space
because it's not my charge to predict
labor markets. How how do you integrate
looking at all these data points that
seem as you said earlier so noisy so
hard to find the signal in there?
>> Yeah, there there's something like the
labor market clearly has taken kind of a
a front seat, right? We had the Fed
really focused on fighting inflation and
and then as we saw the labor market
weakening ultimately in in in encouraged
the Fed to, you know, begin a uh
resumption of the of the interest rate
cuts. Now, you know, I think there's a
kind of a reluctance in the labor market
on both sides, right? There's a a
reluctance maybe at the corporate level
to hire. There's a lot of uncertainty.
Some of that was brought on by uh the uh
the onset of tariffs and just the
uncertainty around where that was going
to impact um uh businesses. Um and then
I think you can't ignore AI and the role
that that's happening. So there's this
uh reluctance maybe to hire and a
reluctance to fire. So we're we're stuck
with a little bit more stagnant
component in the labor market. were
talking earlier about the fixed income
portion. Let's talk about um the equity
portion. And I recall reading something
you said as we were coming out of the
pandemic about the dominance then of
growth stocks over value. How has your
views changed over the past five years
of other than 2022
double digit gains in equities?
Yeah, I think you know we've gone
through this this period um since the
pandemic with different cycles within
the equity markets and certainly there
was a a tilt immediately um towards
growth and and and um and value
underperformed. I think it's it's
shifted a bit. Certainly in 23 and 4, we
saw it it transition to more of a market
cap dominance and and that certainly has
has preceded I think since the beginning
of of 2023 something like the S&P 500
market cap has has nearly doubled the
performance of the S&P 500 equal weight
index. So, you know, we do think there's
um a lot of other things kind of under
that initial layer if you pull it back
and and look at the broader um equity
markets that there's a lot of
opportunity across industries where
companies are uh benefiting from u the
expansion in the economy that are
benefiting from the secular dynamics
that we see whether it be in in
manufacturing investment or technology
investment.
>> Interesting. Um, so we've also seen
active equity management under fairly
intense competitive pressure really for
for a good couple of decades. How does
that change how you look at at equity
selection or asset allocation?
Yeah, you know, I think, you know, from
a maybe a bigger picture, um, you know,
the move towards, um, more passive
exposures, the flood of money into
passive investments has maybe
exacerbated some of these dynamics
around particularly the the the
dispersion between um the the meggaap
stocks, the market weighted indices and
and the average stock or the equal
weighted indicy. Um, you know, I think
for us it really becomes more about um,
you know, security selection. Um,
there's still plenty of liquidity in
those other stocks and and to the extent
that we can turn over rocks that maybe
other investors are not looking at that
are not being influenced as much by the
magnitude of flows coming into passive
um, indices is something that, you know,
is a big part of our overall allocation.
Um, but I would really go back to, you
know, this kind of view that as an
income investor,
we can look for opportunities where
we're not trying to identify the
catalyst next quarter or two quarters
from now. We're looking at investment
with favorable fundamentals that we
think over time can deliver for
investors. And that income component
once again kind of a significant part of
maybe the near-term total return.
So, so let's talk about those different
um asset classes that you're not looking
for great quarter guys, you're looking
for great decade um convertibles,
uh equity, bonds, credit. Do do you play
in the private space as well? How
significant is that? tell us about all
these different multiasset options you
have and is there an overall core
philosophy that sort of strings all of
these together, keeps them all in one
philosophical bucket?
>> Yeah, I I think one of the more
interesting components, you know, of our
of our strategy is is taking a little
bit more of a holistic approach for um
how we invest in a company. Uh I
mentioned before, you know, sitting down
at times with company management teams
when you're approaching it from both an
equity and fixed income analysis
standpoint. Well, looking across the
capital structure, it's pretty common
that you know between a third or 40% of
the portfolio will be invested in
companies where we own multiple parts of
a company's capital structure. meaning
meaning their bonds, their equity and
their convertibles or some combination
>> which it's it is somewhat common in a
multi-asset strategy to have kind of
different
components
>> and if you like the company if you've
done the research and it's income not
just capital appreciation why not own
everything. Do the valuations fluctuate
within the same company from corporate
to equity to convertible? Sometimes a
part of their cap structure is more
appealing than others.
>> Absolutely. And that's something that
we've really seen over the last 5 years.
Certainly when longerterm rates were a
lot lower really across the board, there
were companies where we saw uh equities
trading in mid- teens multiples with 3%
dividend yields and the same benchmark
longer term debt from those companies
yielding one and a half to 2%.
>> Didn't make any sense. Right.
>> Exactly. Well, I recall
>> at that time we'd be very tilted to the
common stock and using other things
within the equity, structured equity in
particular. But fast forward two years,
rates surge higher. Those same
companies, the stocks many cases were at
the same levels or same valuations, yet
bonds had gone from yielding 2% to maybe
yielding five, five and a half%. I
recall a couple of the big tech
companies and I want to include
Microsoft and Apple in them in in that
list issued 2% long-term bonds and yet
the yield was almost that and you had
all the upside of the equity like I I I
don't know who was enthusiastic about
that. How do you when you see a new
issuance like that 2% what do why won't
care about 2%. or is 2% attractive in a
zero rate environment?
>> Yeah, I think for us it's it play it's
it's much harder uh to have that make
sense in our strategy to play a role in
the portfolio. Um but it's something
that you know the more that's out there
we may not have participated in those
new issues in 2020 or 2021 but come back
in 2022 when rates move and invest
suddenly they're attracted I don't think
you know many investors didn't expect
that investment grade corporate bonds
could drop 20 to 25 points and and they
did. So there's always a time for it and
the more of that that is issued in the
market just gives us that that
opportunity uh down the line.
>> Just because it's investment grade
doesn't mean it's not subject to
interest rate risk, right? I I think
that's kind of, you know, fixed income
101.
>> Yeah, that was part of the, you know,
like I said before, the very loud uh
announcement that the bond market made
around its uh its returning to a more
normal functioning in 2022.
>> So So let's talk about the flip side of
that. um real default risk. We we
haven't seen a whole lot of defaults
other than a handful of very specific
corporate was a big fraud case recently
that company and all its fixed income in
the automotive sector crashed and burned
but for the most part fraud uh default
rates have been fairly low. uh how do
you look at at that risk and is it a
sort of top- down macro approach or is
it company by company balance sheet line
by balance sheet line
>> I think first from a top down standpoint
you know we have had a nice tailwind we
have had an economy that's been growing
we've had capital markets that have
provided solutions to companies that uh
need to get through there's also been
probably a fair amount of of um you know
restructurings along the way that uh in
in prior um market cycles would have led
to a higher default rate. So I think you
have to make that that adjustment as
well. I think for us in in our strategy,
it's it's very much so about uh the
fundamental analysis, the idiosyncratic
risk and and working we want to be in
situations particularly in in lower
credit quality companies. um really
understanding that that path that
management has um to ensure that the
company moves to a more solid footing
and that could be um the debt maturity
wall or um access to capital and
liquidity to ultimately deal with um
debt as it comes due. How do you think
about systemic risk relative to what the
central bank is doing and the Treasury
Department is doing? Um Treasury
Department when we look at we had the
financial crisis, we had the pandemic,
we had the flash crash, uh we had that
little hiccup with Silicon Valley Bank
and some of the other um banks that that
in [snorts] reality were contained as
opposed to what we saw during the
financial crisis.
Do investors look at these uh
institutions as um uh providing a put,
providing a um a ready rescue plan or is
it more less about specific companies
and more about we're not going to let
the system collapse?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. You know, I
think we've been through a lot over the
last 20 years. A lot, right? 100 years
worth of stuff in a decade and a half.
>> Yeah. I I think if you look at some of
the policy measures, maybe not, you
know, initially out of the gate
following the financial crisis, but you
know, the the the long tooth that some
of those policies had and and the
distortion ultimately that was created
in markets, I think there's a a
different view of maybe the
appropriateness of some of the policy
today than there certainly was um at the
time. Look, ultimately the fear of
systemic risk does create opportunity
for us. Um, I think being in a highly
diversified strategy, not just from an
asset class standpoint, but but
investing across the range of fixed
income sectors and the range of sectors
within the equity market certainly helps
uh lend a bit of resilience to the
strategy in in the case where markets
become a little bit more concerned about
systemic risks. Um, you know, I I think
one of the probably more interesting
things that that um is happening today
that I'm sure you've talked to other
guests about is is the private credit
space where we've just seen tremendous
growth, tremendous amount of capital um
being committed there and and ultimately
needs to be deployed. And I think some
of this doesn't have quite the same
level of transparency that it would have
had if it was in the the public credit
markets. So, I think that's something
that, you know, we're certainly close to
and and both looking at potential
opportunities because we can play in
private assets within our Franklin
income strategies. But, you know, if
there were something that, you know, we
would want to keep very much on the
radar is is is what is happening in that
space in terms of credit quality.
>> The the criticism that has come up about
privates is that it's a form of
volatility washing. You're you're not
getting marks on the regular that are
marketbased. It's all right. We think
it's worth about this. Here's what the
peers are worth. So, let's sort of
ballpark this. H how do you think about
that? Is that a fair criticism of that
space? And, you know, the main appeal
seems to be, hey, it's non-correlated.
It's potentially uh better returns. H
how do you look at at the the pitch from
the private credit side?
>> I think it's evolved in in in a healthy
way. I think uh using volatility
measures is somewhat debunked. I think
uh um you know leading with a sharp
ratio when you're comparing public and
private assets is not the not something
investors should be focusing on. Um I
you know I I think the you know
ultimately it it has a a meaningful
place the definition of public credit
can be extraordinaril of private credit
sorry can be extraordinarily wide and I
think as that capital has come in it has
started to look at a lot of different
places to uh to ultimately uh have have
its role in financial markets. So we
certainly think it's it's it's a viable
asset. um we just in any and and really
this goes kind of across any asset when
you see the kind of capital moving into
a certain area there's just a greater
risk of maybe less disciplined things
happening
>> and that's something that you know we
think could become you know a little bit
more apparent here as we move forward.
>> Huh really really super interesting. Um
so we've talked about various asset
classes we've talked about uh privates
versus publics. What do you think the
average income investor, yield investor
doesn't understand about either the SMA
they own or the mutual fund or ETF they
own? I I I know fixed income is not
quite as intuitive as equities. You must
hear from a lot of different uh clients.
What what's out there amongst main
street yield investors? I think one of
the biggest things that that we come
across is there's just a a a natural
view that if you're an income investor,
you own a um a certain type of stock or
have a certain type of equity exposure
and maybe that's rooted in the concept
of, you know, like utility stocks,
right? Bondlike surrogates within the
equity market. That's what you must
invest in as an as an income investor.
And the reality is is much broader than
that. um even in the component say of
the S&P 500 uh nearly 40% not paying a
dividend or paying a very low dividend
that's still something whether it's
through convertible securities going
back to that kind of earlier part of my
career or using structured equity where
we can create a security that we can own
for a year or two years that can
replicate that kind of profile in our
strategy. So that opens up the
opportunity to own and we do in our
strategy today um uh convertible like
instruments in Amazon in Microsoft in
Meta. So we really have a much broader
cross-section in the equity markets to
pursue investments.
>> Huh. Really really interesting. Stick
sticking with dividends. Um the S&P 500
uh dividend yield under 2%. Uh way back
when it was 3 and a half 4%. How do you
look at uh dividend stocks as a whole?
how attractive they are, the valuations
there. How do you think about
that group as as a source of yield?
>> Yeah, I think it's a group that you want
to consider. Um, I think back to the
just the profile we've had in in equity
markets, the dominance of of mostly
non-ividend paying stocks, the mega cap
tech companies in particular, and not to
say that they can't continue to be
decent investments, but there is that
whole cohort um that still focuses on
dividends, not just dividends, but
consistent growth of dividends. Um, I
mentioned uh utility companies several
times. One stock that we've actually
held in the portfolio the entire time
that I've been a portfolio manager is
Southern Company.
>> And what probably very few people would
would uh expect um if you go back to
2002 since that time period, Southern
Companies actually match the return of
the S&P 500.
>> Really, really interesting. We're seeing
signs of the market broadening out. Um,
my favorite data point from 2025.
Everybody talks about the concentration
and the Magnificent 7 outperforming.
Only two of the MAG7 beat the S&P 500
last year. Amazing data point. How are
you looking at the rest of the S&P 500?
How are you looking at the value sector?
Can we reasonably expect to see this
broadening continue in the future? Yeah,
we do think, you know, there is some
some interesting value in parts of the
equity market. Um, and and maybe they
are companies that have been, you know,
a little bit out of the spotlight. Um,
you know, we do have a pretty good
amount of sector diversification. So,
we're finding opportunities in these
different areas. It'll be healthcare,
it'll be industrials, energy, utilities,
um, even in materials. some of these
these um trends. Let's take
globalization and and really this move
that is still evolving um into maybe
hemispheric controls and and and uh
nearshoring of supply chain some things
that came out of the pandemic, you know,
all of that has pretty significant
implications. So, finding companies that
have um that a play on a select theme
that you want to that you identify and
want to play, we think there's a lot of
that opportunity in the equity market.
I've been mostly thinking about and
talking about uh US equities. Uh last
year was the first year where uh Msei
uh developed and and even emerging
market just wherever you looked overseas
thumped the US and the US was you know
up almost 18% NASDAQ up a little over
20%. How do you look at the rest of the
world when it comes to either fixed
income or or equities? Yeah, I you know
I certainly think that made a a a great
storyline for 2025. Um reason being, you
know, if we go back and look at 23 and
24 though, US stocks had outperformed so
massively. So
>> or the past 15 years or so
>> at some level we do think it was primed
for a little bit of a reallocation
towards non US markets and then you add
on some of the policy dynamics around
tariffs and
>> and the dollar dropping almost 10% last
year.
>> Exactly. And that really led to some of
that reallocation. A lot of the
outperformance of non- US equity markets
in 25 did happen during that period of
time. So if you were to take a look at
more of the second half, a little bit
more balance between the markets.
>> And then our last question before we get
to my favorite questions I ask all my
guests,
>> what do you think investors and traders
are not talking about, thinking about
that perhaps they should be? And and you
could you're a go anywhere investor. So
you go anywhere with this. what what
assets, geography, policies, data points
are getting overlooked but shouldn't.
>> Yeah, I I think we going to keep coming
back to right now we really feel like
policy is paramount. So really focusing
on where policy will uh will ultimately
take the market midterm elections are
going to continue to be a very
significant overhang in in markets.
Maybe one of the things that concerns me
that investors are not um um talking
about is if we were to think about the
level of uncertainty that some of these
dynamics um naturally create and how
that right now really does not translate
to the kind of expected volatility that
might be there in markets. So just
looking this morning at something like
the VIC in the VIX index which a lot of
investors will go to when they want to
see you know implied volatility back to
the levels it was at in February of
2025. So u we did see a very low right
low low and that tends to be you know a
point where you know we want to be a
little bit more cautious when naturally
there's not a lot of volatility expected
to be coming in markets. Um you know for
us that means we can stay invested we
can focus on uh areas that deliver
attractive income and uh and really
maintaining that nimleness in the
portfolio and the strategy that we have.
>> Really really interesting Ed. Let's
let's jump to my favorite questions that
I ask all of my guests. Starting with uh
tell us about your mentors who helped
shape your career.
Yeah, I'd certainly um first and
foremost on that list is is Charles
Johnson joining Charlie in 2002
uh as a member of the Franklin Income
Portfolio Management Team and really
being able to understand his approach to
investing and uh and hearing the the the
tremendous, you know, experiences that
he had over time. But I think more
importantly him really enabling me to
become a bit of the investor that that I
am today and and uh and and as we went
through that that transition and and
then went through difficult times
particularly the the financial crisis
that awareness that look we're not going
to get every situation right we're not
going to make every perfect investment
but really how you handle it and how you
stay focused on the people that have
entrusted their um their money to us is
is just paramount importance. And um you
know, one of the first things that
Charlie asked me to to do in in 2002 was
a difficult time. Interest rates were
coming down. There was a modest dividend
cut for Franklin Income Fund, which is
not a very common occurrence. Certainly
not something that we we enjoy doing. Um
and getting a handwritten letter from an
investor, a woman in Tennessee that was
a little concerned that her dividend
check had gone down. and and here he is
the chairman and CEO of Franklin and and
portfolio manager still and he gave me
that handwritten note from the investor
and asked me to respond directly to
really and that was just something
>> Did you write a letter or did you pick
up the phone? No, we wrote a letter. Um,
and and that was something I don't
recall having the phone number, but we
did write a letter and and really kind
of laid it out and tried to help her
understand just the dynamic. But to me
that really resonated that wow, this is
so important to to him. This is really
we need to stay connected to just the
role we are playing in individuals
lives. And I I think that's something
that I've really tried to not only carry
on in in my career, but certainly
instill in the broader team that helps
manage Franklin Income.
>> Easy to lose sight of that, right? So So
let's talk about books. Uh what are some
of your favorites? What are you reading
right now?
>> Wow. I'll start with maybe what I'm
reading right now. And this is something
I'm I've always enjoyed um history and
geography. um the end of last year I um
picked up a a a place called Yellowstone
because I was planning a siblings trip
to Yellowstone and it was just really
fascinating the history. I'm now reading
Undaunted Courage by Samuel Ambrose
which is more of the the Louiswis and
Clark expedition. So maybe this summer
I'll be out in Glacier or in the
Bitterroo Mountains on a trail
somewhere. But I I really enjoy um you
know reading. So, I'm I'm more of a
non-fiction um you know, kind of guy. Uh
occasionally I'll pick up something
else. Probably my my favorite of all
time is the Hemingway Classic Form The
Bell Tolls, where you know, you're
reading a um something that plays out
over 72 or so hours. And just um
something like that that really can let
your mind kind of go and the imagination
take hold is is always something that um
I've enjoyed, too. Um, I did just pick
up a new copy. I think it's probably
something that as uh as an American we
should all read. Um, and and certainly
Walter Isacson is not somebody that that
needs a plug of any of any sort. U he
wrote more of a pamphlet called the the
greatest sentence ever written. And
that's something that I think with
America
>> his books are giant.
>> I I think this is around 50 pages. So um
it's it's the greatest sentence ever
written. and um I haven't uh gone
through it yet, but I've heard heard him
speak about it and it's just very
inspiring and like I said, it's um it's
something that uh second sentence of the
Declaration of Independence with America
250 is maybe something that we should
all step back and make sure we read this
year.
>> I I uh have for whom the bell tolls on
on my list and I just read on vacation
last month, the sun also rises um but
nothing beats the old man in the sea.
That book just always speaks to me. Um,
not just as a fisherman, but his pros is
just so compact and tight and powerful.
Re, really very impressive. Um, you
mentioned Yellowstone, so I have to ask,
what are you streaming these days?
What's what's keeping you entertained?
>> Uh, I haven't started Land Man 2 yet,
but that's probably next. Um, you know,
I I really kind of like to um and and
maybe there is a sci-fi element growing
up. Well, my my sci-fi of choice would
probably something like Stargate SG1 or
something where you can really detach.
And I think that's a an important
component. Let the mind rest and and uh
be transported a little bit.
>> Uh let's uh let's jump to our final two
questions. Uh what sort of advice would
you give to a recent college grad
interested in a career in fixed income,
portfolio management, or just investing?
In a way, it would be just that. I see
far too many um college students, recent
grads that think they've already decided
what they want to
>> specializing early.
>> Yes. Or are having a a a definitive I
need to find the job in this. And I just
reflect on my own path that um
it it evolves quickly. Get in a seat
somewhere in an industry that you think
is interesting and see where it takes
you and don't be afraid to put your hand
up when opportunities arise. Just it's
it's you have plenty of time. You have
nothing but time.
>> Don't assume that first gig is where
you're going to spend the next 40 years
of your career. Is that your advice?
>> It you know it can happen.
>> It certainly can. And and our final
question, what do you know about the
world of investing today you wish you
knew 30 plus years ago when you were
first getting started?
>> Oh, it's such a good question. I mean,
in a lot of ways, you know, you almost
wouldn't want things to be to be
entirely different. Um, you know, I I
was fortunate in that I found that role
relatively early on that really
solidified the kind of investor I think
I am. What is that inherent DNA that I
have as an investor? So I think the
sooner you can kind of tap into that and
then explore ways to uh to follow your
investing based upon that. Don't try to
be somebody that you're not, you know,
and I have colleagues that manage um
pure growth funds that follow momentum
strategies and I think they do a
phenomenal job. I also very much know
that's not a job that I would have ever
excelled at.
>> What's the old joke? Wall Street is an
expensive place to figure out who you
are. Absolutely. Ed, thank you so much
for being so generous with your time.
This this has been really quite
fascinating. We have been speaking with
Ed Perks. He's CIO of Franklin Income
Fund as well as member of the executive
committee and PM for a number of
different funds. Uh if you enjoy this
conversation, [music] check out any of
the 600 we've done over the prior 12
years. You can find those at Bloomberg,
iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, wherever you
get your favorite podcasts at. I would
be remiss if I didn't thank our crack
team that helps put these conversations
together each week. I'm Barry Rholtz.
[music] You've been listening to
Bloomberg's Masters in Business.